.TH DOCKGEN 1 "2026-04" "dockgen 0.1.0" "dockgen - Docker Generator"
.
.SH NAME
dockgen \- Docker Compose and devcontainer generator for ROS and general development
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dockgen
.RB [ \-w
.IR workspace ]
.I command
.RI [ args ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dockgen
is an interactive wizard that generates Docker Compose and VS\~Code
devcontainer configurations for ROS and general development environments.
Answers are persisted in
.I .dockgen.json
so that
.B dockgen\~config
can re-run with your previous choices as defaults, and
.B dockgen\~add
can patch a single field without touching the rest.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B new
Run the full nine-step wizard from scratch and write output files.
Pass
.B \-\-force
to overwrite an existing
.IR .dockgen.json .
.
.TP
.B config
Re-run the wizard over an existing
.I .dockgen.json
, using previous answers as defaults.
.
.TP
.BI "add " feature " [" value ]
Surgically add a single feature without re-running the full wizard.
Supported features:
.RS
.TP
.B gpu
Probe for NVIDIA/AMD GPUs and update the GPU runtime setting.
.TP
.B display
Probe for X11/Wayland display and update the GUI forwarding setting.
.TP
.B volume
Append a bind mount.
.I value
must be
.IR HOST : CONTAINER
(e.g.\&
.BR /data:/data ).
If omitted, prompts interactively.
.RE
.
.TP
.B validate
Check that generated files exist and are syntactically valid.
Runs
.B docker\~compose\~config
when
.B docker
is on
.BR PATH .
.
.TP
.B info
Print the current
.I .dockgen.json
as formatted JSON.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-workspace " " \fIdir\fR
Target workspace directory (default: current directory).
All paths are resolved relative to this directory.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .dockgen.json
Source-of-truth configuration. Re-generate all output files by running
.BR "dockgen config" .
.TP
.I docker/compose.yml
Generated Docker Compose service definition.
.TP
.I docker/.env
.BR UID " and " GID
values for Compose variable interpolation.
.TP
.I docker/Dockerfile
Generated Dockerfile (only when \(lqcustom Dockerfile\(rq is chosen in the wizard).
.TP
.I .devcontainer/devcontainer.json
Generated VS\~Code devcontainer configuration.
.TP
.I .devcontainer/Dockerfile
Devcontainer Dockerfile (when both output modes are selected).
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DISPLAY
If set, the wizard defaults GUI forwarding to
.BR x11 .
.TP
.B WAYLAND_DISPLAY
If set, the wizard defaults GUI forwarding to
.BR wayland
(takes priority over
.BR DISPLAY ).
.
.SH EXAMPLES
Generate a ROS\~2 Humble workspace with host networking and Wayland:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dockgen new
# choose: ros_distro=humble, display=wayland, network=host
.fi
.RE
.PP
Add an NVIDIA GPU to an existing configuration:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dockgen add gpu
.fi
.RE
.PP
Mount a dataset directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dockgen add volume /datasets:/datasets:ro
.fi
.RE
.PP
Validate after editing compose.yml by hand:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dockgen validate
.fi
.RE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR docker (1),
.BR docker-compose (1)
.
.SH BUGS
Report issues at the project repository.
